Flu symptoms, so drifted in and out of sleep a bit!


Unable to do any


Very Frequently




Meditation was a little restless, but after about 10 mins in each practice, things became clam and refreshing.
The walk was lovely and refreshing. Meditation this morning was affected by a headache; meditation last night was scattered at first, but settled down towards the end.
Morning sitting practice was lovely.






Paul's comments about being kind to yourself and "the subtle aggression of self improvement" on Wednesday are making me feel more relaxed in my practice - like this isn't a pass/fail thing.


































No practice yesterday































It was distracticed but I felt calmer afterwards..
This was my first body scan after yesterday's class. I elected to have mp3 access but don't seem to have been added to the Alliance site. I had the cd so have tried that in a variety of devices and it isn't working. This led to argument with my partner and frustration with technology. I was looking forward to the body scan because had previously had argument with my son. All in all I remembered what to do and how to do it but very hard to concentrate and mind kept wondering off.
Chaotic thoughts. Still finding it hard to wrangle them. But noticing the drifts.

It was very cold and windy today so I only went for a short walking practice, but it greatly helped to clear my mind.   The short body scan was useful during the afternoon as a transition between tasks, each of which required a different form of concentration. The long body scan I did rather late at night and so had some trouble with drowsiness. I noticed there was an excess of energy concentrated in my head, especially the forehead.
Chaotic day -- needed to do a couple of mindful pauses in order to regather and regroup focus. So exhausted this evening that the body scan ended up being more of a breath and sound-scape practice. But that's okay. I still felt it was beneficial. I noticed the tones voice more on the cd track rather than the words.That in itself was interesting.
The combined body scan with mindful visual focus / open curiosity was done by a pond looking at fish. It was very refreshing and I used the slow moving giant goldfish as a focus. One of them came and looked back at me. We were both there mindfully and curiosly looking at each other. It was quite profound. While on walking sense scan I noticed the tree blossoms more intensely and the changes in sunlight intensity.
I quite enjoyed this practice and the different levels of awareness. During it I became more aware of my heart-beat, circulatory system, and blood pumping throughout the body, as well as the breath. This was quite interesting.
I tried a mindful sound practice on the bus this evening to try and become more aware during the trip. It was interesting exploring the soundscape with my eyes closed. I am a bit unwell at the moment so the breath practice was more difficult than usual as I had to cough every now and then. But things were easier about a third or so through.
I experimented with extendeding the exercise of the raisen to instead explore the different sensations involved in eating a bowl of ramen. I paid mindful attention to focus on the different smells, textures, tastes and temperatures involved with examining and consuming each ingredient. This was very enjoyable. Body Scan was difficult today as I was distracted by pain in my throat. But it helped to identify which aspects of my respiratory system are currently being problematic.
The body scan and breath practice were done in class today. I still had breathing difficulties as I am unwell, but had much more success with a slightly different posture. Unfortunately in the evening I experienced a sudden panic attack. This is a very unexpected and rare occurance. It is only the second one I've ever had in my life. I found that following coming out of this state, doing a very slow mindful eating practice, forcing myself to go through all my senses was beneficial in recovering and recentering following this.
I found today's practice really peaceful and was filled with contentment afterwards. I even achieved writing 'flow' today within my work in the afternoon following the body scan / walking sense scan done at lunchtime.
I noticed that following the breath practice my vision was a lot clearer and I could discern the tree outside my window in a lot more detail. The standing sense scan I did by the creek and found it very uplifting.
In today's practice I mindfully ate a plate of nachos and focused attention on the different textures and flavours. The contrast between the crunchy and soft aspects was very interesting, as was the difference between guacamole and chilli salsa.
The second body scan was done while travelling in a car, so was a bit more informal than the first but nevertheless beneficial.
I found that doing the practices today helped to slow down my perception of time. Today was very hectic and almost overwhelming, and taking the time out to do this helped me regroup.
I found my mind wandered quite a bit during today's practices. I have had very little sleep, so the tiredness impacted a lot. I found the practice refreshing however.
I noticed a greater sense of stillness within myself during the breath practices today. Movement practice I am more familiar with and enjoyed - however it made me quite conscious of how my muscles have weakened as a result of not going to the gym for quite a while. It motivated me to go late this afternoon.
I noticed a greater sense of stillness within myself during the breath practices today. Movement practice I am more familiar with and enjoyed - however it made me quite conscious of how my muscles have weakened as a result of not going to the gym for quite a while. It motivated me to go late this afternoon.
During the walking sense scan I was particularly aware of the warmth of the breeze. During the short body scan I noticed how tired my muscles were from the gym yesterday, but it was a good tiredness as they were more relaxed rather than being tense. During the final body scan I was distracted a bit by the loud sound of a computer keyboard nearby, I was also quite aware of the soreness of my knee from an old joint injury. However it was still refreshing.
During the walking sense scan I was particularly aware of the warmth of the breeze. During the short body scan I noticed how tired my muscles were from the gym yesterday, but it was a good tiredness as they were more relaxed rather than being tense. During the final body scan I was distracted a bit by the loud sound of a computer keyboard nearby, I was also quite aware of the soreness of my knee from an old joint injury. However it was still refreshing.
I found the free-form sound outdoors practice very interesting. I let the practice be freeform but used sound as the anchor. I especially noticed the wind in the trees. I had good focus during the movement practice during weights training. I focused awareness on the movement of muscles as well as the breath. During the formal breath practice I was quite distracted. I noticed I have a lot of fear, anger, and worry. I am concerned about the upcoming industrial action as well as the election and my mind kept jumping back to it.
I found the free-form sound outdoors practice very interesting. I let the practice be freeform but used sound as the anchor. I especially noticed the wind in the trees. I had good focus during the movement practice during weights training. I focused awareness on the movement of muscles as well as the breath. During the formal breath practice I was quite distracted. I noticed I have a lot of fear, anger, and worry. I am concerned about the upcoming industrial action as well as the election and my mind kept jumping back to it.
I had intended to do just a breath practice but my mind kept wandering and being distracted by outside noise. I decided to make it part of the practice so changed part way through to a combo of breath and soundscape awareness. I was a lot more focused in attention after doing this. The walking practice was interesting and I enjoyed being curious about the sensations involved in walking. An unpleasant aspect was a greater awareness of the everpresent dull background ache and ongoing weakness from old injury in my left knee and a couple of toes on the right foot. I also became more aware of my bodyweight, which I am selfconscious about. Later in the day I used a mindful pause to regroup after a stressful situation.
Although it was a chaotic day I felt I could concentrate pretty well during the breath practice. I noticed a lot of tension in my chest and back.
I had intended to do just a breath practice but my mind kept wandering and being distracted by outside noise. I decided to make it part of the practice so changed part way through to a combo of breath and soundscape awareness. I was a lot more focused in attention after doing this. The walking practice was interesting and I enjoyed being curious about the sensations involved in walking. An unpleasant aspect was a greater awareness of the everpresent dull background ache and ongoing weakness from old injury in my left knee and a couple of toes on the right foot. I also became more aware of my bodyweight, which I am selfconscious about. Later in the day I used a mindful pause to regroup after a stressful situation.
Although it was a chaotic day I felt I could concentrate pretty well during the breath practice. I noticed a lot of tension in my chest and back.
I decided to try a combindation of body scan and breath practice standing with eyes open outdoors under some trees at lunchtime. There was a noisy football game on nearby but I was not distracted by it. I was unaware of the sound of it for a long period which was unusual because there was lots of yelling. I noticed much tension in my arms and shoulders. It was a very refreshing practice. In the evening I did a seated body scan - I noticed tension in my hands and jaw. The left side of my face was also quite tense and occasionaly tingly. I felt more focused afterwards.
I decided to try a combindation of body scan and breath practice standing with eyes open outdoors under some trees at lunchtime. There was a noisy football game on nearby but I was not distracted by it. I was unaware of the sound of it for a long period which was unusual because there was lots of yelling. I noticed much tension in my arms and shoulders. It was a very refreshing practice. In the evening I did a seated body scan - I noticed tension in my hands and jaw. The left side of my face was also quite tense and occasionaly tingly. I felt more focused afterwards.
I noticed tension in my forearms, hands, stomach, and left side of the face and scalp. In the longer breath practice I encountered an itch on my right heel - I decided to make space for it within the practice and returned to the breath. This seemed to work quite well. I felt refreshed after these different practices.
The first two practices are estimates for those done in class today. This evening I did a combined breath and body scan. One of my pet fish died today so during the practice I was encountering a lot of sadness and anger. I was aware of an almost burning sensation in my hands. My mind was wandering a lot but I managed to keep brining awareness back to my intended purpose.
The first two practices are estimates for those done in class today. This evening I did a combined breath and body scan. One of my pet fish died today so during the practice I was encountering a lot of sadness and anger. I was aware of an almost burning sensation in my hands. My mind was wandering a lot but I managed to keep brining awareness back to my intended purpose.
I noticed during the breath practice that my heart rate was quite rapid. I was feeling fearful about working on my writing. I have been trying to do STOP regularly -- I know this as 'mindfulness pause' so may have call it this in previous entries. Today I was holding a lot of tension in my hands, arms, and left side of my back. I live in a very tiny apartment where there is no floor room to actually lie down - so unfortunately it is problematic for me to do the yoga as movement practice. I tried turning running at the gym into a mindful movement exercise through focusing awarness on the breath as well as the sensations in the body. I found this very interesting and was more present instead of tunning out completely. I experimented with a soundscape practice on the bus on the way home.
I noticed during the body scan that my heart rate was very high. I was anxious about going to a farewell afternoon tea in my dept and was worried about being asked about my project. By the end of the practice my heart rate had returned to a more normal level and I was a lot more relaxed. I tried to turn stationary cycling into a mindfulness practice by focusing on the movement of individual muscles and parts of the leg.
Today I focused on two informal practices, turning both showering and eating an apple into exercises in mindfulness. It was fascinating to note all the details of the apple. I went through all the senses in order to experience it more fully. I practiced being more fully present while showering. Normally it is something I do rapidly and on auto. It was relaxing and fun to approach it using 'beginners mind.'
I only did a short body scan today but I continued experimenting with some informal practices. I did the raisin exercise using a strawberry, which I found quite profound. The taste was a lot more intense than I anticipated after spending a long time examining the fruit. The intricacies of the patterns and textures were also particularly prominent. I tried some free expressive interpretive dance in a mindful manner to late some '80s power songs, which was also quite a fun and very energising practice. I did a body scan afterwards to make especially sure to note the sensations - I seem to experience and store a lot of emotions through the hands, arms, and stomach. Doing this I've established that even when happy a lot of excitement is sensed and located there -- this time not of the anger or anxious variety, as I've noticed when stressed and doing the body scan. This was a useful practice to do to see the difference between these states.
This afternoon I did a longer practice that combined a short body scan, then a breath practice, followed up an free form mindful open awareness exercise. I have noticed that my reactivity to sounds is gradually lessening through doing mindfulness - through exploring the soundscapes the potential 'threat' aspect of them has diminished a little. Having explored the background sounds through mindfulness they seem less of an issue. This evening I tried a RAIN practice, focusing awareness on fear. I am feeling quite anxious about a conference coming up later this week. My thoughts are concerned with failing at public speaking and looking like an idiot. Predominant emotion is fear. The sensations are an intense tighteness in my chest over my heart, in my windpipe, and also stomach. I tried to give these sensations space during the practice - a lot of images of fear of prior public speaking was flashing through my mind. I tried to show myself compassion and kindness by thinking 'it's okay to feel and expeirnece this.'
I am feeling very stressed at the moment. The mindful walking sense scan helped through the movement and concentrated awareness on each sense taking my attention away from my worries. I did a longer breath practice but my mind was very unsettled with anxieties. I kept returning to the breath. Tears randomly started running down my checks. I think I needed to cry.


During the thoughts part in the in-class practice today instead of leaves on a stream I tried the clouds in the sky visual aspect. This did not work as well as my thought clouds were stormy, dark, and oppressive. I did a breath and soundscape practice this evening but was so tired I feel asleep part way through. I am okay with this as I need rest.
I had great difficulties today because of all my anxieties in attending and presenting at a conference. I was unfortunately not in a state to be able to enter a formal mindful practice but I found that having a warm shower was the only way to focus my awareness to the present moment and get out of a loop. In the evening the breath and soundscape practice was very helpful in becoming more relaxed even though my mind, emotions, and body were all still very chaotic.
I attempted to conduct a RAIN practice in order to snap myself out of a negative extremely anxious loop and try to examine more of what's going on there by 'turning towards.' It didn't really go so well. Only mindfully having a warm shower could I really hone awareness back on physical sensation. In the evening I found I had a lot more focus during the breath and soundscape practice.
The last couple of days have been intense. Way too much anticipatory anxiety. I noticed I was very relaxed during the body scan today as with the conference over I have nothing to be so worried about. I was quite aware that my feet were sore. During the body scan with my eyes closed it was interesting that the room felt a lot bigger than I know it is.
I did the raisin exercise using taro toast practicing beginner's mind and a focus of open curious awareness on exploring it. Texture especially stood out for me today. During the body scan I became aware of how worn out and physically exhausted I am from the last few days.
I seem to have a strong preference for combined practices. I am finding shifting between the different levels of awareness helpful for maintaining focus in the moment. I tried the raisin exercise using hot chocolate. Open curiosity about temperature and the sensations of what it is like to drink a warm liquid was very interesting. The taste also seemed a lot more intense.
During mindful walking today I became more aware of the sensation of wind on my skin and the warmth of the sun. During unstructured free-form practice I became more aware that my body is quite exhausted, I am having difficulty breathing, and my glands under my chin are quite sore. It is possible I am a bit unwell at the moment. I enjoyed the free flowing mindfulness practice.
Through mindful walking I became more aware of the wind and also the warmth of the sun on my skin. I enjoyed the free-form practice. However I became more aware that my body is really exhausted, I am having difficulty breathing, and my glands under my chin are quite sore. It is possible I am unwell at the moment.




During practice I became more aware of the pain throughout my body and difficulty breathing. I have some of flu at the moment and everything aches. It reminded me to take things a bit easier afterwards. I explored the sensations involved in eating ramen soup, all the different tastes, textures, and smells of the different ingredients.
During practice I became more aware of the pain throughout my body and difficulty breathing. I have some of flu at the moment and everything aches. It reminded me to take things a bit easier afterwards. I explored the sensations involved in eating ramen soup, all the different tastes, textures, and smells of the different ingredients.
I found it easier today to rest in choiceless awareness even though my body is still flu-achey.
I found it easier today to rest in choiceless awareness even though my body is still flu-achey.
I went on a yoga morning retreat and we did a variety of practices, indoors and outdoors. I used this as an opportunity to improve mindful awareness of movement and body sensations. I was aware I was holding a lot of tension in my back.

I kept being disturbed by the noise of sudden gusts of wind. I tried to incorporate it within the practice itself.







good
good







Was in mindfulness class

used a guided meditation from the headspace app.
in mindfulness class
in mindfulness class
from headspace app
from headspace app
from headspace app
i used the headspace app
tried several 5 minute blocks of informal practise

















Very long and relaxing, day off wirk

Husbands illness got in way of practise time.
The body scan was quite difficult tonight. My mind wandered a lot.



I didn't complete any formal practice in the last 24 hours.
I didn't complete any formal practice in the last 24 hours.
I really struggled to focus on the privatise today, more than on any other occassion




















Was useful in that it drew me back to enjoying a moment instead of thinking about how to repeat it and thus missing it

In class - better than I expected because I had had an extremely demanding and sad 24 hours prior to the calss
Done about 6.00 pm- took a while to settle to it



I found that my mind drifted about 4 times during the practice but i was able to pull it back
I haven't done today's yet




I did these practices during the course
It was a stressful day and I found myself seeking to do mindfulness practice to calm my mind



Today's practice was carried out during class
Today's practice was carried out during class




Really enjoyed the body scan today and found myself wishing that it was longer! I'll try a longer one next time
Really enjoyed the body scan today and found myself wishing that it was longer! I'll try a longer one next time
Really enjoyed it. It felt good to take a moment out of my busy day.
Today was week 4 of the course
Today was week 4 of the course
I found it hard to stay awake and had to finish the practice prematurely as a result.
After falling asleep during yesterday's 30 minute body scan, I was afraid to do a long practice today
